README.md, before:


## Canary jobs

Canary runner is responsible for exercising [participating ClojureScript projects](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/tree/master/runner/src/canary/projects) with a pinned ClojureScript version.

You could run it locally, but that would be too old-school. And frankly you would not have some secret tokens
needed for talking to GitHub and Travis APIs. Instead you can trigger canary jobs by committing into this branch. Travis will pick it up and execute your job. The commit message is [expected](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/blob/3a555f984f27dea52af2d756df28647af208b08d/scripts/travis-entrypoint.sh#L16) to contain command-line arguments you would normally use `job [arg1] [arg2] [...]`.

For example `job -r master` will run the job for bleeding edge [ClojureScript master](https://github.com/clojure/clojurescript/tree/master).

Each completed job should produce a report page with results. You can find archived reports in the [results branch](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/tree/results).

#### Available parameters

```
> ./scripts/docker-run.sh job --help
(in /runner) $ lein run -- --help
Exercises ClojureScript projects with a pinned ClojureScript version.

Usage: ./run.sh job [options]

Options:
  -r, --compiler-rev REV          master                                        Pin ClojureScript compiler to specific revision
      --compiler-repo URL         https://github.com/clojure/clojurescript.git  Git repo to fetch compiler sources from
  -p, --projects DIR              src/canary/projects                           Path to projects directory
      --workdir DIR               .workdir                                      Path to working directory
      --only SUBSTR                                                             Run only tasks matching a substring
      --job-id ID                 test                                          Optional job id
      --polling-interval SECONDS  300000                                        Polling interval for job status (in seconds)
      --timeout SECONDS           3600000                                       Total timeout for job to complete (in seconds)
      --production                                                              Will not commit into results branch
  -t, --test                                                                    Do not launch any tasks. Useful for testing which task will be executed.
  -v                                                                            Verbosity level; may be specified multiple times
  -h, --help
  ```

Commit message:

update readme with a note about forced parameters [ci skip]

README.md, after:


## Canary jobs

Canary runner is responsible for exercising [participating ClojureScript projects](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/tree/master/runner/src/canary/projects) with a pinned ClojureScript version.

You could run it locally, but that would be too old-school. And frankly you would not have some secret tokens
needed for talking to GitHub and Travis APIs. Instead you can trigger canary jobs by committing into this branch. Travis will pick it up and execute your job. The commit message is [expected](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/blob/3a555f984f27dea52af2d756df28647af208b08d/scripts/travis-entrypoint.sh#L16) to contain command-line arguments you would normally use `job [arg1] [arg2] [...]`.

For example `job -r master` will run the job for bleeding edge [ClojureScript master](https://github.com/clojure/clojurescript/tree/master).

Please note that `--production` and `--job-id` parameters are not available to you. They are [forced by our launcher script](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/blob/3a555f984f27dea52af2d756df28647af208b08d/scripts/travis-entrypoint.sh#L31).

Each completed job should produce a report page with results. You can find archived reports in the [results branch](https://github.com/cljs-oss/canary/tree/results).

#### Available parameters

```
> ./scripts/docker-run.sh job --help
(in /runner) $ lein run -- --help
Exercises ClojureScript projects with a pinned ClojureScript version.

Usage: ./run.sh job [options]

Options:
  -r, --compiler-rev REV          master                                        Pin ClojureScript compiler to specific revision
      --compiler-repo URL         https://github.com/clojure/clojurescript.git  Git repo to fetch compiler sources from
  -p, --projects DIR              src/canary/projects                           Path to projects directory
      --workdir DIR               .workdir                                      Path to working directory
      --only SUBSTR                                                             Run only tasks matching a substring
      --job-id ID                 test                                          Optional job id
      --polling-interval SECONDS  300000                                        Polling interval for job status (in seconds)
      --timeout SECONDS           3600000                                       Total timeout for job to complete (in seconds)
      --production                                                              Will not commit into results branch
  -t, --test                                                                    Do not launch any tasks. Useful for testing which task will be executed.
  -v                                                                            Verbosity level; may be specified multiple times
  -h, --help
  ```
